README.md, before:

Transmission Bottleneck Estimator

This is the implementation of the transmission bottleneck estimation method based on beta-binomial sampling described in "Transmission Bottleneck Size Estimation from Pathogen Deep-Sequencing Data, with an Application to Human Influenza A Virus".

Requirements
R 3.5.2+
rmutil 
argparse
Rscript

Be sure to add the Rscript path to your environment variables or include the path when calling Rscript from the command line.  


Example:

For the approximate code run

--vanilla Bottleneck_size_estimation_approx.r "example_data/donor_and_recipient_freqs.txt" "example_data/recipient_freqs.txt" TRUE 0.03 1 200

The command line arguments are list of donor variant frequencies, list of recipient variant frequencies, variant calling threshold, minimum bottleneck size, and maximum bottleneck size.

For the exact code run

Rscript --vanilla Bottleneck_size_estimation_exact.r "example_data/donor_freqs_recip_freqs_and_reads.txt" TRUE 0.03 1 200

The command line arguments are list of donor variant frequencies, list of recipient total reads, recipient variant reads, variant calling threshold, minimum bottleneck size, and maximum bottleneck size.


The codes will output plots in pdf format called "approx_plot.pdf" and "exact_plot.pdf".

Commit message:

added confidence level to command line arguments

README.md, after:

Transmission Bottleneck Estimator

This is the implementation of the transmission bottleneck estimation method based on beta-binomial sampling described in "Transmission Bottleneck Size Estimation from Pathogen Deep-Sequencing Data, with an Application to Human Influenza A Virus".

Requirements
R 3.5.2+
rmutil 
argparse
mdatools
Rscript

Be sure to add the Rscript path to your environment variables or include the path when calling Rscript from the command line.  


Example:

For the approximate code run

Rscript --vanilla Bottleneck_size_estimation_approx.r "example_data/donor_and_recipient_freqs.txt" TRUE 0.03 1 200 .95

The command line arguments are file with lists of donor and recipient frequencies,  TRUE or FALSE (determines if pdf plot is produced), variant calling threshold, minimum bottleneck size, maximum bottleneck size, and confidence level.

For the exact code run

Rscript --vanilla Bottleneck_size_estimation_exact.r "example_data/donor_freqs_recip_freqs_and_reads.txt" TRUE 0.03 1 200 .95

The command line arguments are file with lists of donor frequencies and recipient frequencies and reads,  TRUE or FALSE (determines if pdf plot is produced), variant calling threshold, minimum bottleneck size, maximum bottleneck size and confidence level.


The codes will output plots in pdf format called "approx_plot.pdf" and "exact_plot.pdf".
